it's okay to admit to yourself
this is a virtue i don't have
it's okay to look at a situation and
think through
what would a more virtuous person have
done
how would a more virtuous person have
reacted
then think about what particular virtue
it was that you were lacking
admit yourself i have some virtues
and not others and this this happens to
be
a virtue i lack but you know what else
this analytical process can lead you
to consider the option of practicing
particular virtues that you lack and you
know if you try it out
you might decide hey this is just not
for me it's not going to work
but you might find that you change you
might find that actually those virtues
can become more familiar it can become
more easy
for you to practice in difficult
situations under pressure
when you've put in the time and effort
when you've tried it out for yourself
but it all begins with recognizing
what virtues you've got and which ones
maybe
are unfamiliar to you whether that is
through
lack of practice or something that is
just in your nature
a lot of video games i played when i was
growing up as a kid would give you about
four
options on screen you know some
some situation arises in the video game
some calamity some challenge you know
and there are kind of four options
a b c d for you to fee to choose from a
menu
you know with a lot of these things in
life
one of the options we don't talk about
we don't think about
or maybe we don't think about enough
because we don't have one word for it
in the english language is to just be
happy
for others you know
i wish we had one word for that in
english because even
even the adjective happy isn't quite
suitable uh your best friend
from grade school fell in love with
and is now engaged to be married to a
guy
who you had a crush on through all of
high school
but you never told him what are you
gonna do you might think there are only
three options
but a fourth one another option that's
on the list that's on the menu is to
just be happy for them
can't you just be happy for her can't
you maybe you can't
maybe that's something lacking in you
you really got to examine and really got
to
think about and philosophize about maybe
try to practice
and if you decide it's not for you if
you decide you can't do it it's not in
your nature or you're just terrible at
it or something
you got to think about what you're going
to do instead you're going to have to
come up with a new strategy you're going
to have to come up with a new way
of being a human being and relating to
other human beings can't you
just be happy for them it's not easy
and i see this on a massive scale
now on the internet and yeah
sometimes it's about things that are
tremendously
shallow maybe because people
are not ashamed to exhibit their
jealousy
about shallow things and
maybe it's more difficult for them to be
honest or go public
when it's about something more profound
okay
billy eilish
she's made a huge amount of money become
very famous
performing what i would consider
absolutely
terrible music but every year somebody
somewhere is going to make a fortune
performing terrible music
okay can't you can't you just be happy
for her
i'm happy for if i met her face to face
in real life i wouldn't lie and say that
i like her music
i wouldn't lie and say i like i
appreciate you how would you say
i'm happy for you i'm happy for you that
this word i'm happy that you
you know you're that one person in a
million who performs this horrible music
and gets to
gets to live there gets to live their
dream
right billy eilish has
enormous breasts we're going to see this
huge array of reactions
on the internet including interestingly
other women with enormous breasts
who seem to feel oppressed by society
and are like imposing this onto billy
eilish and claiming that she like
symbolizes their sense of oppression as
women with
unusually large breasts and of course
there's this other kind of
discourse of resentment from
flat-chested and small-breasted women
i guess they feel disadvantaged perhaps
not oppressed in a world that's
obsessed with with large breasts you
know
not all of the reactions are of jealousy
and envy
and some of the reactions are just of a
kind of
peculiar sneering contempt some of the
reactions are from people where i think
i think their their point is not that
she's
unattractive i think there are people
complaining
that she is not attractive enough
to have her position of kind of unearned
fame like the expectation is
that she ought to present herself like
beyonce and either actually be as
attractive as beyonce or some other
icon of both beauty and the performing
arts that she ought to be living up to
the standard of being a legend a myth
um not just in terms of her vocal
performances but in terms of
you know they have an expectation formed
by
not just a few but dozens of other women
who have played this role publicly
and have uh projected a certain kind of
glamour and beauty
regardless of how they might look when
they're not wearing makeup
or they're not making a public
appearance or they're not wearing an
evening gown you know this is sort of
failed expectation
that she should be more beautiful than
she is or or be made to appear
more beautiful than she is through a
conspiracy of fashion designers and
photographers
and retouching and flattering angles and
what have you right
this whole range of reactions
and i wish we had just one word in
english for this
this sense of can't you be happy for her
there's an option on the menu there
option number four is
just be happy for her and i know that
word happy is
misleading you're not gonna be like wow
i'm i'm
so glad that this other person
is living out this dream that i had i
didn't get to live you're not going to
be delighted you're not going to be
delighted like oh yeah my best friend
from primary school
is now getting married to that guy i
used to want to get married too in high
school and i never like i i get it
i get it that you're not going to be
glowing
with enthusiasm the type of happiness
we're talking about here
is that it's a kind of subtle
appreciation
you know that guy you had a crush on in
high school somebody was going to marry
him
somebody all right it just it just
happened to be her
it just happened to me that girl you
knew from so can't you be happy for her
would you be happy or if it were beyonce
would you be happier for a complete
stranger who married that guy
why so just be happy for her right
somebody
was gonna make a million dollars this
year playing this ludacris pop music
fame game right but it happened to be
you
even if i think it's completely
undeserved right even if i don't think
you married it or would it
i can still be happy for you even if
even if my opinion is because i listen
to rap music
that there are thousands of more
talented rappers who upload their music
to soundcloud and datpiff.com and they
don't get the recognition i feel they
should more
they should be they're more deserving of
this money and fame
that's profoundly irrelevant there's an
option on the menu here can't you be
happy for her okay
the other controversy uh
surrounding billy eilish
is the extent to which she does or
doesn't represent
a positive voice within veganism
a positive voice for veganism
all right and on some level
we all know billy eilish is 18 years old
and she's not an intellectual
can't you just be happy for her
like seriously she has somehow
stumbled into this veganism thing
and you know
she may be the worst vegan in the world
i'm happy that she
stumbled into it there may be a lot of
things that she's doing wrong
i hope she figures them out one by one
there are a lot of things she hasn't
thought through where she doesn't have
the most philosophical
angle on i hope that in the years to
come
she recognizes those things and thinks
them through and becomes wiser
and a better voice for veganism and just
a more articulate voice for herself
frankly she's obviously someone who
struggles a great deal with giving
interviews or public speaking
yeah criticism is an option
anger outrage disappointment is an
option disappointment
right but do you not think it's possible
that the reason why option number four
doesn't come up here in your mind you
not think it's possible
that you're thinking on some level this
was a dream you had
that you wanted to be the voice for
vegan activism and you think you could
do
better at it just like a whole lot of
people on the internet they wanted to be
the next beyonce
they wanted to be the next famous singer
and they have this sense of resentment
that she's not doing it right that they
could have done better
there's this sense of resentment that
you could have seduced and fallen in
love with
that guy you had a crush on in high
school but some other girl got him and
said
do you not think there's a kind of
undertow and
your problem is that you can't feel
happy for others
because part of you still wishes that
you could take their place